A short history of Glyncorrug. In the early 1800s, Glyncorrug was nothing
more than a scattered community of farms and cottages. It is the only site in the
Avon Valley that appears on early maps, although the rest of the valley was
similarly populated. The arrival of the South Wales Mineral Railway in 1863,
which linked Glyncorrug to Britain Ferry, was the catalyst responsible for an
increase in the population of the Upper Avon. In 1861, there were around 330
people living in the area. Glyncorrug was the first of the Avon valleys to be
developed, with Camer, Aber Gwynfie and Blaen Gwynfie following shortly after.
The ordinance survey maps of 1876 show the progress of each of the four
villages. A fair indication of how the populations had increased was the
introduction of public amenities. By 1900, the population of Glyncorrug had
grown to almost the size it is today, with the population standing at around
By 1951, the population had increased to 1,757.